Download Link: https://assignmentchef.com/product/solved-solvedmatching-dna
<br>
Lab Assignment 8Matching DNAProject DescriptionThis Lab Assignment will give you more experience with while loops and if statements, and give you an opportunity to work with strings.The ProblemScientists measure how closely related a species is by looking at the DNA sequences for key proteins and seeing how similar/dissimilar they are. If the two sequences of DNA are essentially the same, the two species are considered to be evolutionarily closer since there is a relationship between changes and time. This process is called sequence alignment.Consider the two strings of DNA below:Species 1: AATAACGAAASpecies 2: AAAACGAAAAA scientist can change the alignment by assuming that an insertion or deletion, of one of the bases has occurred. They could make such a change, called an indel for short, to see if it improves the alignment:Species 1: AATAACGAAASpecies2: AA-AACGAAAAAssuming two indels, marked as two dashes(-), the alignment is greatly improved. The scientist would assume that two changes happened, one change in each species.While complex algorithms exist to do sequence alignment, it is also useful to support aresearcher and allow them to do an alignment by hand.Project Specification1. You will prompt for two strings. The strings can have any characters you like, but to be“biological” it should consist of: “A”, “T”, “C”, “G”. The strings do not have to be of thesame length.2. You will then prompt for one of 3 commands:a. “a” for add. Add an indelb. “d” for delete. Delete an indelc. “s” for score. Score the present alignmentd. “q” for quit. Stop the process.3. Adding an Indel. When you add an indel, you must prompt for two pieces ofinformation: CS 61002 Algorithms and Programming Ia. which string to changeb. at what index (starting at 0) do you wish to place the indel (placement is beforethe given index, Error if the index is out of range).The string should then be modified and a dash(-) added.4. Delete an Indel: If you can add an indel, you should be able to delete it if it doesn’t dowhat you want. Again, you must prompt for two pieces of informationa. which string to changeb. the index (starting at 0) to delete the indel. It is an Error to delete a characterthat is not an indel.5. Scoring. You will report the number of matches and the number of mismatches.a. Any indel is automatically a mismatch.b. If one string is shorter than the other, the shorter string is filled out with indels.c. After you score, you print both strings.i. Matching characters are printed in lower case. If the user entered uppercase letters, you convert them to lower case on a match.ii. All mismatches are printed in upper case.iii. Indels are printed as dashes.